funding for Common Core State Standards
and II LLS is provided by the American
Federation of Teachers Innovation Fund
you are going to be doing a cooperative
paragraph Ali Nava is having her second
graders work on a cooperative paragraph
about the text they're studying
boudreaux's tortillas I'm gonna assign
you either beginning middle or end and
as it grew you guys need to come up with
an exemplary sentence about what
happened during each part of the story
whatever your party to begin she breaks
the students into small groups and
assigns each group a section of the
story to summarize you are going to
discuss with your group and you're gonna
write the same sentence
what happened in either whatever your
site beginning middle or end and when
you're done we're gonna come back and
share those out does everyone understand
that I don't want to see you just
sitting down and starting writing away
you got to talk to each other to see
what you're going to put the students
then discuss the story and come up with
a summary sentence together as extra
guidance is novelettes the students
reference story flashcards and their
previous summary worksheets
once the groups have their summary
statements ready as Nava brings everyone
together so they can share their work I
want you to share with me the sentences
that you came up with in the little
rectangle part it should be the same
sentence you guys agree to find it and
each of you each group was assigned
either beginning middle or end so raise
your hand if you were assigned the
beginning party Brooklyn was who well is
the balla time okay Brooklyn share your
sentence please I'm gonna put number 1
and we're gonna start right here so
Brooklyn you're gonna share with
everybody what your group came up with
for the first part okay what is the
sentence you came up with our groups did
he's them corn to make tortillas an
exercise like this gives English
language learners a low pressure
situation in which to practice their
language skills they interact with their
peers orally right with the assistance
of classmates and then have the option
of sharing that work with the whole
class so now can we read this sentence
can you read it for me please
are there mistakes did I make okay ms
Nava intentionally makes errors while
writing the sentences so that she can
ask the students to spot the mistakes
and make the correction okay
Brooklyn correct the first mistake so
what did you do I can't promise the age
because it can be a lowercase if you're
starting a new sentence how do we start
a sentence
time captured a letter s capital letters
all the time awesome so why don't you
call on somebody else to find another
mistake this exercise gives the students
an engaging way to demonstrate their
understanding of the standard
conventions of English spelling
capitalization and punctuation all of
which they need to know in order to meet
an important Common Core miles did you
see that okay let's look at her sentence
EULA read it again he found corn to make
yes okay who else was in the beginning
time can you come up and share your
sentence please he saw the corn and said
tortillas ah he saw the corn and said
thought if he has okay Todd will you
read the sentence to the class please
what do you notice about the sentence
that I wrote does it look pretty good to
you
no there's mistakes do you want to
change one you want to go first and then
everybody else be studying that sentence
to see if you can identify any other
mistakes raise your hand if you agree
with him that's right was that a mistake
what did i do what did i do Angela
i misspelled it you know what I noticed
you were doing you were doing something
that good readers do all the time
you kept turning around to look at the
word wall were you looking for the word
set and what were you doing you were
checking to see if what it was right or
if I'm not right or wrong Wow
mr. crane once great learning great
reader thank you for catching that and